# Assignment 1

## Assignment instructions:

### Moore's Law

Use the link [here](https://course-resources.minerva.kgi.edu/uploaded_files/mke/00187747-2229/specdata20120207.zip) to download the required dataset.

The data is provided in the following format:

| `testID`               | `benchName`   | `base` | `peak` |
| ---------------------- | ------------- | ------ | ------ |
| `cpu95-19990104-03254` | `101.tomcatv` | `19.4` | `27.1` |
| `cpu95-19990104-03254` | `102.swim`    | `27.2` | `34.8` |
| `cpu95-19990104-03254` | `103.su2cor`  | `10.1` | `9.98` |
| `cpu95-19990104-03254` | `104.hydro2d` | `8.58` | `8.61` |

Now do the following:

1. Extract the date and base speed for a benchmark of your choice.  Note that the dates contained as part of the testID don't tell us about when the hardware was actually designed, so the test could have been run at a much later date using older hardware.  We therefore need the date indicating when the hardware was first available (hwAvail) from the summaries file to really test Moore's Law.
2. Plot the data in a semi-log plot
3. Now train a linear model to fit your plot
4. How well is Moore's Law holding up?

### MNIST Digits

No machine learning course would be complete without using the [MNIST dataset](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/tutorial/basic/tutorial.html). This dataset was a hugely influential dataset of handwritten digits (0-9).

1. Using Scikit-learn, load the MNIST digits (see [here](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.datasets.load_digits.html#sklearn.datasets.load_digits))
2. Plot some examples
3. Choose two digit classes (e.g. 7s and 3s), and train a k-nearest neighbor classifier
4. Report your error rate on a held out part of the data
5. (*optional*) Test your model on the full dataset (available from [here](http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/))

Please convert everything to a single PDF file and submit it. Be sure to include all the code necessary to reproduce your results, but please leave out exploratory code that does not contribute to any figures or final results. This assignment is not just about code, and any choices which need justification, or insights you gain should be included in plain English.

---
