## 13.1 Markov Models

## Study Guide

After the readings and pre-class work have been completed, you should feel comfortable answering the following questions:

- What is the Markov property?
- What is a stationary Markov chain, and how is it defined?
- What is the equilibrium distribution of a Markov chain? What are the necessary conditions for it to exist?

Look at the [study guide](https://github.com/minerva-university/cs156/blob/master/session23/study_guide.md) if you need guidance for pre-class work.

### Pre-Class Work Guide

#### Speech Recognition

This week we will deal with a simplified form of speech recognition. The languages are artificial and have been generated using a combination of Markov models and hidden Markov models (HMMs). In real life things are much more messy! This artificial data makes for a better tutorial with cleaner results.

There are two forms of the datasets available. In the first form, there are several audio files, which can be parsed into discrete phonemes. In the second form, the parsing has already been done for you, and you are presented with long sequences of symbols. It is worth listening to the audio yourself, and seeing if you can determine any differences between the "languages" or "speakers" by ear!

If you want to process the audio dataset yourself, rather than using the parsed dataset, then it is advised to use: `scipy.io.wavfile` to read an audio file. All audio will be single channel (mono) and noiselessly generated from a small set of component sounds.

## Pre-class work

### 1. Language Detection

There are three languages: A, B and C. Each language uses the same set of symbols: "A, o, e, t, p, g, and k." However, each language uses the symbols differently. In each of these languages we can model everything as P(next symbol | current symbol).

- There is training data available for each language. This consists of several files each generated by sampling from a Markov model. Using Python, build a Markov model for each of the languages.
- Now use the Markov model and Bayes' rule to classify the test cases. Write down how you used Bayes' rule to get your classifier. Give the full posterior distribution for each test case.

The audio dataset can be found [here](https://course-resources.minerva.kgi.edu/uploaded_files/mke/nglEdY/audio.zip), while the [symbol dataset](symbol.zip) is in this file.
